
Hi Gators, my name is Jason Tillotson and I'm a career coach for early engagement at the Career Connection Center. I've created this quick step-by-step guide on how to format a winning resume.
0:09
To follow this guide, start by opening a blank Word doc and by the end we'll have a outline of a perfectly formatted, ATS-friendly resume.
0:15

So, let's get started. In that blank Word doc that you just opened up, you're going to type your first and last name at the very top, in the very center of the document, ideally in bolded font.
0:26
And we're using a simple font here like Aptos or Times New Roman, Calibri, something like that. Underneath your name, you'll put your city and state, your phone number, your personal email address, and your LinkedIn if you have one.
0:37
The LinkedIn is optional. If you don't have one yet or you don't have one fully built out, that's totally okay.
0:42
Then go ahead and type out all of the sections and header titles. So the objective statement, the education section, the experience, the skills, and the awards and honors.
0:51
Those will be our section headers for each of the different sections in our resume. Go ahead and pause this video and come back once you have that all typed out.
1:00
we're back. So now that we have that all typed out and all of our different section headers in the document, we're going to ahead and put in the, we're going to go ahead and put in the content.
1:09
So pull up Putting in the content of the objective statement, you want to think about what are you using this resume for?
1:16
So it's just a quick two to three sentences on what you're studying and how you aim to make an impact in your industry.
1:21
And it is totally optional. You do not need an objective statement. For your resume, it's best suited for an in-person event like career showcase or another recruiting fair that you might be handing your resume in to a recruiter.
1:34
So it is totally optional. You do not need an objective statement. Uh, but if you're arguing to have one, think about, Why are you using the resume?
1:41
What do you hope to achieve? So moving on to the education section, you're going to type your full, the full name of your degree program.
1:50
So in this case, Bachelor of Science and Journalism. And then you're going to tab all the way over to the right and put your graduation date and your GPA separated by a vertical line.
2:01
If you don't wish to include your GPA, that's totally fine. It is totally up to you to include your GPA or not.
2:07
Um I always tell students if the job you're applying for or the program you're applying for requires a certain GPA and your GPA is above that, then put it just so that the the recruiter will know that you have that required GPA.
2:21
And then underneath on the second line you'll put your name of the- institution which is the University of Florida and the college that you're studying.
2:27
So name of degree, name of institution in that order, and then if you had any relevant courses to the job you're applying to or the program you're applying to, uh you would include that in there as well.
2:39
Then moving on. Onto your experience section, and this can be a general experience, it could be a volunteer experience, relevant experience, you can title it kind of however you see fit, uh based on what you actually include in your experience.
2:50
Um but in this case I'm a career coach for early engagement so that is my job title that I put in.
2:54
First, and then my institution that I work for is the University of Florida so I put that second, and the location there as well separated by a vertical line.
3:02
Uh another important thing here is to remember to place your experience in reverse chronologic vertical order. So that means your most recent or your current role should be the first role in your experience section, and then you go backwards in time from there.
3:18
So this is my most current, my most recent role, and then my next most recent role would go second, my third most recent role would go third, and then fourth, and fifth, and so on, as you go backwards in time.
3:29
Umm, but as far as the actual content of your experience section, you want to use this formula, action verb plus task plus result, to craft a really great bullet point.
3:40
So using that for the purpose of this exercise, we'll look at these two bullet points that I've written ahead of time.
3:45
Umm, relevant to my role, of course this will be different for your experience. But using action verb plus task plus result, I've said I've developed and delivered weekly workshops on a variety of career topics such as resume writing, interviewing skills and job search strategies to enhance the career
4:01
development experience for freshmen and sophomore students. So that outlines kind of what I've done, how I've done it, and how often- I'll talk to him.
4:09
I've done it, and the impact of what I've done, right? So what you've done, how you've done it, how often you've done it, and the impact, the tangible value that you've uhh, you've caused in this, you've added.
4:24
In this role. So another example, provided over 15 personalized, one-on-one coaching sessions on a weekly basis to support students in their career exploration.
4:33
So what have I done, how I've done it, how often have I done it, and the impact, the result of that.
4:39
Right? So you'll rinse and repeat that formatting process and that content creation process for all of your different experiences, following the same format all the way through, and that'll be your experience section.
4:53
And then in your skills and- certification section you want to make sure that you're not including any soft skills. So things like teamwork, communication, leadership, all of those soft skills should be articulated in the bullet points of your experiences in one way or another, right?
5:08
So the skill section is really for- technical skills, certifications, languages that you're proficient or fluent in, uhm kind of like you see here, right?
5:15
So technical skills certified in Adobe Premiere and Dreamweaver, proficient in Canva, right? So that's appropriate. And then languages fluent in Spanish, conversational in French.
5:23
Um, that is- This is the skills section. And it's also not mandatory to have a skills section. If you're a first and second year student and you don't have those certifications yet, um, or you're not fluent or proficient in any other languages, that's totally fun.
5:35
You do not have to include a skills section. Uh, for those of us who are in the- the more technical fields like computer science or engineering, those fields do require a lot of technical skills and a lot of certifications, so you might have a ton of those in your skills section.
5:51
And in that case, you may consider putting your skills section in between. In education and experience just to have it stand out a little bit earlier in the in the resume.
6:00
So that's just something to consider depending on on what you study. So finally you have awards and honors. That's another optional section of your resume.
6:08
You do not need to include it. . . But if you do have some awards of note or scholarships that you've earned throughout your professional or academic career, feel free to put those in there.
6:18
So that is the gist of how to create a really solid resume that is ATS friendly from a format perspective and from a .
6:25
content perspective as well. We always like to say the best way to get your resume, uh, proofed is to schedule an appointment with a career coach through Gator CareerLink without either myself or any one of our talented career coaches to make sure that you're.
6:39

My resume is up to date and ready to go. So thank you very much and go Gators. We'll